Now we're ready to discuss
a different aspect of
your operating system.
Not only does the OS
interact with other
parts of your computer,
but it's also responsible for
managing the resources
of the system.
This is a big task that requires
a lot of balance to make
sure all the resources of
the computer are
used efficiently.
Think of this like the
concept of energy.
A person needs energy to
complete different tasks.
Some tasks need more energy,
while others require less.
For example, going for a run
requires more energy
than watching TV.
A computer's OS also needs
to make sure that it
has enough energy to
function correctly
for certain tasks.
Running an antivirus scan
on your computer will use
more energy than using the
calculator application.
Imagine your computer
is an orchestra.
Many different
instruments like violins,
drums, and trumpets are
all part of the orchestra.
An orchestra also has
a conductor to direct
the flow of the music.
In a computer, the
OS is the conductor.
The OS handles resource and
memory management to ensure
the limited capacity of
the computer system is used
where it's needed most.
A variety of programs, tasks,
and processes are
constantly competing for
the resources of the central
processing unit, or CPU.
They all have their own
reasons why they need memory,
storage, and
input/output bandwidth.
The OS is responsible
for ensuring that
each program is allocating
and de-allocating resources.
All this occurs in
your computer at
the same time so that your
system functions efficiently.
Much of this is hidden
from you as a user.
But, your task manager
will list all of
the tasks that are
being processed,
along with their
memory and CPU usage.
As an analyst, it's
helpful to know
where a system's
resources are used.
Understanding usage of
resources can help you respond
to an incident and troubleshoot
applications in the system.
For example, if a computer
is running slowly,
an analyst might discover
it's allocating
resources to malware.
A basic understanding of how
operating systems
work will help you
better understand
the security skills
you will learn later
in this program.